Kruise rollout addon whole story (#723)
oam-dev/kubevela.io: docs/tutorials/helm-rollout.md

---
title: Canary Rollout Helm chart
---

## Before starting

> 1. Please make sure have read doc of [deploying helm chart](./helm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Please make sure you have read the doc about [deploying helm chart](./helm).
```

> 2. Install Kruise Rollout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make sure you have already enableld the kruise-rollout addon.
```

```shell
% vela addon enable kruise-rollout
enable addon by local dir: addons/kruise-rollout
Addon: kruise-rollout enabled Successfully.
```

3. Please make sure one of the [ingress controllers](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/) is available in your Kubernetes cluster.

>    If not yet, you can install one in your cluster by enable the [ingress-nginx](../reference/addons/nginx-ingress-controller) addon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If not, you can enable the [ingress-nginx](../reference/addons/nginx-ingress-controller) addon:
```

```shell
vela addon enable ingress-nginx
```

> Please refer [this](../reference/addons/nginx-ingress-controller) to get the gateway's access address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer [this](../reference/addons/nginx-ingress-controller) to learn more about the `ingress-nginx` addon.
```

> 4. Please make sure the version of  Vela-cli `>=1.5.0-alpha.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Please make sure the version of  Vela CLI tool `>=1.5.0-alpha.1`, some of the commands such as rollback rely on the new version.
```

### First deployment

> 

Reviewer: 同样加一下要rollout要先加 trait。

```shell
cat <<EOF | vela up -f -
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: canary-demo
  annotations:
    app.oam.dev/publishVersion: v1
spec:
  components:
  - name: canary-demo
    type: helm
    properties:
      repoType: "helm"
      url: "https://wangyikewxgm.github.io/my-charts/"
      chart: "canary-demo"
      version: "1.0.0"
    traits:
    - type: kruise-rollout
      properties:
        canary:
          # The first batch of Canary releases 20% Pods, and 20% traffic imported to the new version, require manual confirmation before subsequent releases are completed
          steps:
          - weight: 20
          # The second batch of Canary releases 90% Pods, and 90% traffic imported to the new version.
          - weight: 90
          trafficRoutings:

>           - type: nginx

Reviewer: 同样的问题，没有 nginx 的 case 要先讲。

EOF
```

> This  is a general helm chart created by `helm create` command, which contains a deployment whose image is `barnett/canarydemo:v1`, a service and a ingress. You can check the source of chart in [repo](https://github.com/wangyikewxgm/my-charts/tree/main/canary-demo).

Reviewer: 空格。 建议用 vscode 写文档，装一些插件。

> Access the gateway endpoint. You can see the result always is `Demo: V1`

Reviewer: 用 vela portfarward 命令执行 ingress ，不然别人不知道怎么看。

Reviewer: 没有 nginx 的case 可以指向 service 吗？

```shell
vela workflow resume canary-demo
```

Access the gateway endpoint again multi times. You will find out the chance to meet result `Demo: v2` is highly increased, almost 90%.

```shell
$ curl -H "Host: canary-demo.com" <ingress-controller-address>/version
Demo: V2
```

## Canary validation successful, full release

In the end, you can resume again to finish the rollout process.

```shell
vela workflow resume canary-demo
```

Access the gateway endpoint again multi times. You will find out the result always is `Demo: v2`.

```shell
$ curl -H "Host: canary-demo.com" <ingress-controller-address>/version
Demo: V2
```

## Canary verification failed, rollback

If you want to cancel the rollout process and rollback the application to the latest version, after manually check. You can use this command:
```shell
vela workflow rollback canary-demo
```

Access the gateway endpoint again. You can see the result always is `Demo: V1`.
```shell
$ curl -H "Host: canary-demo.com" <ingress-controller-address>/version
Demo: V1

> ```

Reviewer: 最后要有一个 limitation，讲一下什么样的 helm chart可以。哪些不行，比如 CRD Controller的肯定不行。
